Title: The Beijing Bike Tour and China Belly Problems
Date: 2011-08-20 14:23
Author: Sam Stoelinga
Category: China
Slug: the-beijing-bike-tour-and-china-belly-problems

New
pics are added to the same
album: <https://picasaweb.google.com/118136053313378320646/Beijing2011WithBart#>

The day before yesterday went on bike tour to some famous lakes in
Beijing (Beihai, Houhai, Qianhai, Xihai) and some temple which was
closed already :( We biked the following path I created the route on
Google Maps for people, who want to try it also: [The Route on Google
Maps](http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?authuser=0&ie=UTF8&hl=en&oe=UTF8&msa=0&msid=212889837162657669218.0004aaeb65bce60c1bf49 "The Route on Google Maps").  

<iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?hl=en&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;oe=UTF8&amp;msa=0&amp;msid=212889837162657669218.0004aaeb65bce60c1bf49&amp;vpsrc=6&amp;ll=39.962912,116.367874&amp;spn=0.0921,0.145912&amp;z=12&amp;output=embed"></iframe>  
View [Beijing Bike Tour Wudaokou -\>
Beihai](http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?hl=en&ie=UTF8&oe=UTF8&msa=0&msid=212889837162657669218.0004aaeb65bce60c1bf49&vpsrc=6&ll=39.962912,116.367874&spn=0.0921,0.145912&z=12&source=embed)
in a larger map

The bike tour itself was also already pretty good, we didn't use the
normal roads but tried to go through the neighborhoods around here. That
was pretty fun, the neighborhood we went through seemed a little poor
many dirt on the street and many people selling vegetables, also saw a
store selling chickens, which were still alive. Actually we were
planning to start at Xihai and go down to Beihai, but because we went
much faster than expected we ended up at Beihai and went up again to
Xihai.

After arriving at Beihai we decided to go in and pay the small entrance
fee, which I really hate. Don't wanna pay for some touristic attraction.
It will make me feel too much like a tourist. Inside the park it looked
pretty good, we went with a small boat to the other side of the lake. On
the boat I talked with some Chinese kids and his father was using his
iPad to make pictures and videos. We were also on some of those pics :P

Yesterday we went to the Olympic park, a park which they built just for
relaxing and beauty. At the entrance of the park there is a big lake
with many golden carps, which you can feed and touch if you are quick
enough :P We also fed them some Chinese white bread. After it became
dark, we went fishing nearby the Olympic park, but didn't catch any :(
Last time I went fishing there with Lindan, we catched 2 gold fishes.

Today we planned to go to the great wall, but Bart was a little sick
because we traveled too much. Not serious luckily, just little
uncomfortable in the belly. The standard stuff you get in China. But I'm
there no need to worry, already bought some western food like bread and
jam and water. He is already feeling much better. But having a good
relax also wasn't that bad for myself also :P

Tomorrow we will even go out to travel again if Bart is totally
recovered. We will go to Summer Palace (Yi he yuan) and another famous
park nearby called Yuan ming yuan.
