content/ml/stable-diffusion-on-gke-autopilot.md, before:

Title: Deploying Stable Diffusion Web UI on GKE Autopilot
Date: 2023-05-30 19:36
Author: Sam Stoelinga
Category: ML
Tags: ml, k8s, stable-diffusion
Slug: deploying-stable-diffusion-gke-autopilot

Deploying Stable Diffusion WebUI on K8s can be challenging, but no more.
Learn how to do it by:

1. Creating a GKE autopilot cluster
2. Deploying AUTOMATIC1111 Stable Diffusion Web UI
3. Accessing the UI through port forwarding


Create a GKE Autopilot cluster:
```
gcloud container clusters create-auto sd \
    --region us-central1
```

Build and push the docker image to Google Artifact Registry:
```
export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get project)
export IMAGE=gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/sd-webui:latest
git clone https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker
cd stable-diffusion-webui-docker
gcloud builds submit
```
Your Stable Diffusion Web UI image will now be available in Google Container Registry.

Create a file named `stable-diffusion.yaml` with the following content:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: stable-diffusion-webui
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: stable-diffusion-webui
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: stable-diffusion-webui
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: "nvidia-tesla-t4"
        # remove this node selector if you don't want to use spot
        cloud.google.com/gke-spot: "true"
      containers:
      - name: sd
        image: $IMAGE
        env:
        - name: LD_LIBRARY_PATH
          value: /usr/local/nvidia/lib64
        resources:
          limits:
            nvidia.com/gpu: 1
          requests:
            cpu: "3500m"
            memory: "14Gi"
            ephemeral-storage: 10Gi
```

Create the deployment:
```
envsubst < stable-diffusion.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

Creating the pod will take a while, because GKE Autopilot will create nodepool
that meets your pod resource requirements. You can check the latest status
by running:
```
kubectl describe pod -l app=stable-diffusion-webui
```
After a few minutes you should see an event that the pod triggered scale up
and the pod should become running. This might take up to 15 minutes due to
scale up being slow and pulling a 17GB docker image isn't fast.

Verify that Stable Diffusion is running:
```
kubectl logs deployment/stable-diffusion-webui
```

Access the Stable Diffusion WebUI by forwarding ports:
```
kubectl port-forward deployment/stable-diffusion-webui 7860:7860
```

In your browser go to the following URL:
[http://localhost:7860](http://localhost:7860)

You should now see Stable Diffusion Web UI like this:
![sd-webui-screenshot](/images/sd-webui-screenshot.png)

Relevant resources:

- Source for the docker image: [https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker](https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker).
- Instructions on [how to build the stable diffusion webui docker image in GCE](https://samos-it.com/posts/deploying-stable-diffusion-web-ui-with-docker-on-gce-t4-vm.html).

Commit message:

add cross links on Stable Diffusion posts

content/ml/stable-diffusion-on-gke-autopilot.md, after:

Title: Deploying Stable Diffusion Web UI on GKE Autopilot
Date: 2023-05-30 19:36
Author: Sam Stoelinga
Category: ML
Tags: ml, k8s, stable-diffusion
Slug: deploying-stable-diffusion-gke-autopilot

Deploying Stable Diffusion WebUI on K8s can be challenging, but no more.
Learn how to do it by:

1. Creating a GKE autopilot cluster
2. Deploying AUTOMATIC1111 Stable Diffusion Web UI
3. Accessing the UI through port forwarding

Not up for a challenge? Maybe deploying [Stable Diffusion on a GCE VM](
https://samos-it.com/posts/deploying-stable-diffusion-web-ui-with-docker-on-gce-t4-vm.html)
is easier for you.


Create a GKE Autopilot cluster:
```
gcloud container clusters create-auto sd \
    --region us-central1
```

Build and push the docker image to Google Artifact Registry:
```
export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get project)
export IMAGE=gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/sd-webui:latest
git clone https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker
cd stable-diffusion-webui-docker
gcloud builds submit
```
Your Stable Diffusion Web UI image will now be available in Google Container Registry.

Create a file named `stable-diffusion.yaml` with the following content:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: stable-diffusion-webui
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: stable-diffusion-webui
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: stable-diffusion-webui
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: "nvidia-tesla-t4"
        # remove this node selector if you don't want to use spot
        cloud.google.com/gke-spot: "true"
      containers:
      - name: sd
        image: $IMAGE
        env:
        - name: LD_LIBRARY_PATH
          value: /usr/local/nvidia/lib64
        resources:
          limits:
            nvidia.com/gpu: 1
          requests:
            cpu: "3500m"
            memory: "14Gi"
            ephemeral-storage: 10Gi
```

Create the deployment:
```
envsubst < stable-diffusion.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

Creating the pod will take a while, because GKE Autopilot will create nodepool
that meets your pod resource requirements. You can check the latest status
by running:
```
kubectl describe pod -l app=stable-diffusion-webui
```
After a few minutes you should see an event that the pod triggered scale up
and the pod should become running. This might take up to 15 minutes due to
scale up being slow and pulling a 17GB docker image isn't fast.

Verify that Stable Diffusion is running:
```
kubectl logs deployment/stable-diffusion-webui
```

Access the Stable Diffusion WebUI by forwarding ports:
```
kubectl port-forward deployment/stable-diffusion-webui 7860:7860
```

In your browser go to the following URL:
[http://localhost:7860](http://localhost:7860)

You should now see Stable Diffusion Web UI like this:
![sd-webui-screenshot](/images/sd-webui-screenshot.png)

Relevant resources:

- Source for the docker image: [https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker](https://github.com/samos123/stable-diffusion-webui-docker).
- Instructions on [how to build the stable diffusion webui docker image in GCE](https://samos-it.com/posts/deploying-stable-diffusion-web-ui-with-docker-on-gce-t4-vm.html).
